SMMP: A WARPED simulation kernel application

Authors: Randall King, Radharamanan Radhakrishnan, and Philip A.  Wilsey
Computer Architecture Design Laboratory
Dept of ECECS, PO Box 210030 
Cincinnati, OH  45221--0030

Introduction
This document describes the SMMP symmetric multiprocessor application
model. The SMMP application models a shared memory multiprocessor. Each
processor is assumed to have a local cache with access to a common global
memory (The model is somewhat contrived in that requests to the memory is
not serialized -- i.e., main memory can have multiple requests
pending at any given moment). The model is generated from a configuration file
which lets the user adjust several model parameters. The next section deals with 
the configuration file.


Configuration File
The model generator program lets the user adjust the following parameters
before writing out the model:

(a) Number of processors or caches to simulate - This is the number
of SMMP processors that are required to be simulated. Each SMMP processor
is represented by a set of queuing objects that perform the task of
symmetric multiprocessor. In our model, a processor along with its cache
memory is modeled with six queuing objects (Source, Join, Queue, Fork,
Server and another Join).

(b) Speed of cache - This is a model parameter that needs to be set
by the user. We assume that the speed of the cache is an integer quantity
which is smaller than the speed of the main memory. A typical value for
the speed of the cache would be 10, whereas the speed of the main memory
can be 100, implying that the cache is 10 times faster than the main
memory. The main objective here is to model the latencies of the cache and
the main memory.

(c) Cache Hit ratio - again this is another model parameter that
determines what percentage of the requests are sent to the cache memory
instead of the main memory. Obviously, the lower this number is, the more
requests that are sent out to the main memory ( i.e., more cache misses). 

(d) Speed of main memory - Basically the latency of the main memory
represented as a multiple of the cache speed. Again we assume here that
this is an integer quantity.

(e) Number of requests per processor - This is the number of memory
requests each processor with generate during the lifetime of the
simulation.


Example Configuration File:
An example configuration file would be the following (this is the SMMPDefault file):
8
10
0.85
100
1000


Acknowledgments
This research has been conducted with the participation of many
investigators.  While not an complete list, the following individuals
have made notable direct and/or indirect contributions to this effort
(in alphabetical order):
Perry Alexander,
Scott Bilik,
Harold Carter,
Dale E. Martin,
David A. Charley,
Girindra D. Sharma,
Praveen Chawla,
Debra A. Hensgen
John Hines,
Balakrishnan Kannikeswaran,
Venkatram Krishnaswamy,
Lantz Moore,
Avinash Palaniswamy,
John Penix,
Radharamanan Radhakrishnan,
Raghunandan Rajan, 
Dhananjai Madhava Rao, and
Christopher Young.

We wish to express our sincerest gratitude for the time that you spent
reviewing and commenting on our designs.


This research was supported in part by the Advanced Research Projects
Agency, monitored by the Department of Justice under contract number
J--FBI--93--116.  In addition, we benefited greatly from the technical
support and guidance by the ARPA and DOJ program managers, notably: Bob
Parker, John Hoyt, and Lt. Col. John Toole.  Without this support and
interaction, the work documented in this report would not have been
possible.  Thank you.