Command Line Parameters:
-numStragglers  This is the number of stragglers that Object3 will send. It is
                also how many rollbacks will occur.

-outputMode  The options for this are lazy, aggr, or adapt. 
             lazy - Regenerates the same events after a rollback.
             aggr - Generates different events after a rollback.
             adapt - Regenerates the same events after a rollback
                     for the first half of the simulation and different
                     events after a rollback the second half of the 
                     simulation.

-adaptiveState  Using this parameter will cause delays while executing
                an event and while saving state.

Description:
The test simulation application is named AdaptTest and has 6 objects.
Object0 sends events with timestamps increasing by 20. It sends these events to Object1. 
Object1 then sends these events with increasing timestamps of 20 to Object2. 
Object2 does nothing with the events. 
Objects 3, 4, and 5 send events in a ring pattern amongst themselves. 

Object3 sends one event to Object4, which sends one event to Object5, which then
sends one to Object3.  These events have timestamps that increase by 5 each time
an event is sent.  Every 100th event that Object3 sends, it sends an event to
Object1.  Because the timestamps in the 3, 4, 5 ring are increasing much slower
than the timestamps of Object1, the event from Object3 to Object1 causes Object1
to rollback. When Object1 processes this straggler event, it does not send an
event to Object2.  Nothing happens when processing the straggler.

Depending on the output mode selected, Object1 will send events to Object2 in
three different ways.  For the aggr output mode, the events sent after a
rollback will be different than the ones sent before the rollback. This will
cause the adaptive output manager to move into the aggressive mode. For the lazy
output mode, the events sent after a rollback will be the same as the ones sent
before the rollback. This will cause the adaptive output manager to move into
the lazy mode. For the adapt output mode, rollbacks for the first half of the
simulation will generate the same events after a rollback, causing the adaptive
output manager to move to the lazy mode. For the second half of the simulation,
the events sent after a rollback will be different, causing the adaptive output
manager to move back to the aggressive mode.

The other mode of operation for the simulation is to have delays while saving
state and executing a process. This causes the state manager to adapt the
period. Without the delays, the period should quickly increase every time it is
recalculated. With the delays, the period will remain the same more often but
still increase overall.

Right now, Object0 will send 10,000 events.

